Blazor webassembly example (#51)
DevExpress/XPO: Tutorials/ASP.NET/WebApi/README.md

## Overview

> This tutorial demonstrates how to create an ASP.NET Core Web API service that supports the [WebApiDataStoreClient](http://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/DevExpress.Xpo.DB.WebApiDataStoreClient) provider. For additional information about WebApiDataStoreClient, refer to the following help topic: [Transfer Data via REST API](http://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/402182/connect-to-a-data-store/transfer-data-via-rest-api).

Reviewer: Same here

## Prerequisites

* [Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/) with the following workloads:
  * **ASP.NET and web development**
  * **.NET Core cross-platform development**
* [.NET Core SDK 5.0 or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/all)

## Step 1: Create an ASP.NET Core Web Api project

1. Open Visual Studio and create a new project.

> 2. Search for the **ASP.NET Core Web Application** template. Click **Next** to proceed.

Reviewer: Search... and click next? You do not have to do anything with the **ASP.NET Core Web Application** template? Select it?

Reviewer: How about: Select the **ASP.NET Core Web Application template**, and click **Next**.

3. Set the project name and click **Create**.

4. Select **ASP.NET Core 5.0** and **API** and click Create.

For more information, see the following:

  * [Create web APIs with ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/web-api)
  
## Step 2: Add the DevExpress XPO Package

Use any of the following approaches to install the XPO package:

**Package Manager Console**

* From the Visual Studio **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager > Package Manager Console**.
* Make sure **Package source** is set to **All**, **nuget.org** or **DevExpress 20.1 Local** and run the following command: 
    ```console
  Install-Package DevExpress.Xpo
  ```

**NuGet Package Manager**

* In the **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project name and select **Manage NuGet Packages**.
* Make sure **Package source** is set to **All**, **nuget.org** or **DevExpress 20.1 Local** on the right.

> * In the left top corner under **Browse**, search for the `DevExpress.Xpo` package and select its latest version on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the left top corner under **Browse**, search for the `DevExpress.Xpo` package and select the latest version on the right.
```

* Click **Install** on the right and accept all the licenses in the **License Acceptance** dialogs.    

> For more information, see the following:

Reviewer: More information about what?

Reviewer: Ok

  * https://www.nuget.org/
  * https://nuget.devexpress.com/

## Step 3: Register DevExpress.Xpo.DB.WebApiDataStoreService

1. Open the *apsettings.json* file and add a connection string to a root element.
   ```json
    {
        ...
        "ConnectionStrings": {
            "YourConnectionStringName": "data source=(localdb)\mssqllocaldb;initial catalog=DxSample;user id=sa;password=dx"
        } 
    }
    ```
2. Open the *Startup.cs* file and add the following code to the **ConfigureServices** method.
    ```cs
    string connectionString = Configuration.GetConnectionString("YourConnectionStringName");
    IDataStore dataStore = XpoDefault.GetConnectionProvider(connectionString, AutoCreateOption.SchemaAlreadyExists);
    WebApiDataStoreService service = new WebApiDataStoreService(dataStore);
    services.AddSingleton(service);
    ```
3. Add XML formatters, because WebApiDataStoreClient sends data in the XML format.
    ```cs
    services.AddMvc().AddXmlSerializerFormatters();
    ```

> 3. Add the CORS policy to allow access from a different origin. You can add multiple origins. For each origin, enable the POST method and the "Content-Type" header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the CORS policy to allow access from a different origin. You can add multiple origins. For each origin, enable the POST method and "Content-Type" header.
```

    ```cs
    services.AddCors(options =>
        options.AddPolicy("XPO", builder =>
            builder.WithOrigins("https://localhost:44317")
                .WithMethods("POST")
                .WithHeaders("Content-Type")));
    ```

## Step 4: Add a Web API controller

> 1. In the **Solution Explorer**, select the **Controllers** folder and create the *XpoController.cs* file (the file and class names are up to you).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Solution Explorer**, select the **Controllers** folder and create the *XpoController.cs* file (you can specify the file and class names).
```

Author: I wanted to change this part (inside parentheses) to "you can use another file name), but finally I remove it because this part is not important.

Reviewer: I also think "In the **Solution Explorer**, select the **Controllers** folder and create the *XpoController.cs* file" is sufficient.
